Starting this project, I found it difficult to decide what I had wanted to do. Previously using code to create visually aesthetic projects, it was challenging to consider about using it in a way to be an intervention, to have my user think. Moving forward, I struggled with my concept before coming up with the idea to combine this final with my final for my ANTH 204 class which was called “Indigenous Peoples of North America”. This class was more than looking at which tribes lived where but the historical and present elements, culture and influences that have effected indigenous peoples. My theme for my final in ANTH was concerning identity, and the different sort of perspectives on it. The ones I focused on were language, connection to land and legal status in terms of reflecting one’s indigenous identity. I also wanted to be very careful in starting this project to not be insensitive and made sure to consult with indigenous students from Concordia to make sure I was being respectful and not overstepping. 

When it came to actually constructing the site, I started with language in terms of reading, writing and speaking. The annyang library proved to be quite useful in the speaking bit. I really liked the idea of the user having to say the word correctly in order to advance to sort of reflect how some (this is not true for all indigenous folks as I have learned from my peers, I did quite a bit of research) indigenous peoples base a lot of their identity on their ability to speak their native tongue.

The following part was simple JavaScript in order to have the text fade, to reflect lost languages, and have the user sort of scramble to type out the word in time, to also reflect how many indigenous languages are being lost before they can be learnt or archived.. Also the ability to write in one’s language is also important hence why this page is included. The fishing page, also fairly simple Java, has to do with connection and respect for the land. The user is meant to collect the fish in the box, the instinct would be to collect all of the fish. However, to reflect indigenous hunting practices of only taking what was needed, only a certain amount of the fish are able to be dragged and dropped while the others stay behind.

 The two pages with checklists in relation to gaining or loosing status with what seems like the most obscure criteria is also to reflect how strict legal status in Canada is. How regulated it was and also how easy it was to lose. The choice to use a British male voice, using the Responsive Voice library, was to reflect the sort of colonial power which has caused such detrimental effects on indigenous populations since they arrived. I was surprised the voice came out sounding so sarcastic, I am also aware the dialogue is sort of snooty. I did that purposefully to reflect how in the past, especially prior to the amendments made to the Canadian Indian Act in 1985, Status Indians could lose their status extremely easily without being told about this by the government. Once status was lost it was extremely difficult if not impossible to get it back. This cycle of lack of information leading to losing status has been a contributing factor to the attempted enfranchisement of indigenous peoples.

Overall I am very proud of myself with this project. I worked through the problems I had instead of scrapping the whole thing, starting over and having copied code. Growth is good!
